So we've finished the introduction right now and have a basic overview of the Power BI universe.
Now it's time to dive a little deeper and we will start our deep dive with the first tool, with Power
BI desktop.
Let's first take a quick look at the workflow of that tool.
So generally, we can divide probably a desktop or the workflow in that tool into three steps.
The first step is the data preparation,
so the connection to the source files and the cleaning of the data we imported. After we are happy with
that basic data, we can then import the data into our data model,
this is the second step,
the data modeling. Here we can continue our work on the data and as soon we finished our real data model,
we can go to the third step, the data visualization. Now for all of those steps, Power BI desktop has certain
tools or views.
Let's see what that is.
So for the data preparation,
we have the query editor.
This is kind of an integrated separate tool which allows us to, well prepare the data right and to clean
and shape the data
we want to have in our later model. We'll have a look at that query editor in detail in the next module.
As soon as we finished the preparation,
we need two things for the data modeling, we need the relationship view and the data view. Both views are
connected because you can create relations between the different tables and columns you have in the
data view, you have the relationship view.
So that's why you have two views in your actual data modeling part.
Now for the last step, the data visualization, you have the report view,
this is the view where we can create our visualizations, charts, tables and so on.
Now we could continue talking about this in theory but I think it's better if we just switch to our
initial GDP project from the first module and see where we can find those workflow steps and those tools
and views in the actual Power BI desktop interface.
Let's find that out.
So this is the last thing we saw in our GDP project,
the only difference is the little box in the upper right part of that screen
and as you can see, we are now in the last step,
so we are in the data model but in the data visualization step and the report view.
Now how does this interface work and how does this fit to the workflow we see up there?
Let's find that out in the next video.